# Code of Conduct

We, the organizers of **Nodeschool Cincinnati**, are dedicated to providing a
harassment-free community for everyone, regardless of sex, gender identity or
expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, age, body
size, race, nationality, or religious beliefs. We do not tolerate harassment of
community members in any form. Participants violating these rules may be
sanctioned or expelled from the community at the discretion of the organizers
of **Nodeschool Cincinnati**.

Harassment includes offensive verbal or written comments related to sex, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance,
age, body size, race, nationality, or religious beliefs, deliberate
intimidation, threats, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording,
sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact,
and unwelcome sexual attention. Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate
for any events at **Nodeschool Cincinnati** meetups or in any related
communication channels. Community members asked to stop any harassing behavior
are expected to comply immediately. Sponsors and presenters are also subject to
the anti-harassment policy.

If a community member engages in harassing behavior, the organizers of
**Nodeschool Cincinnati** may take any action they deem appropriate, including
warning the offender or expulsion from the community. If you are being
harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any concerns,
please contact an organizer immediately.

## Social rules

> via [Recurse Center's User Guide][user-guide]

Another way we try to remove obstacles to learning is by having a small set of
social rules. These rules are intended to be lightweight, and to make more
explicit certain social norms that are normally implicit. Most of our social
rules really boil down to "don't be a jerk" or "don't be annoying." Of course,
almost nobody sets out to be a jerk or annoying, so telling people not to be
jerks isn't a very productive strategy. That's why our social rules are designed
to curtail specific behavior we've found to be destructive to a supportive,
productive, and fun learning environment.

### No feigning surprise

The first rule means you shouldn't act surprised when people say they don't know
something. This applies to both technical things ("What?! I can't believe you
don't know what the stack is!") and non-technical things ("You don't know who
RMS is?!"). Feigning surprise has absolutely no social or educational benefit:
When people feign surprise, it's usually to make them feel better about
themselves and others feel worse. And even when that's not the intention, it's
almost always the effect. As you've probably already guessed, this rule is
tightly coupled to our belief in the importance of people feeling comfortable
saying "I don't know" and "I don't understand."

### No well-actually's

A well-actually happens when someone says something that's almost - but not
entirely - correct, and you say, "well, actually…" and then give a minor
correction. This is especially annoying when the correction has no bearing on
the actual conversation. This doesn't mean the Recurse Center isn't about
truth-seeking or that we don't care about being precise. Almost all
well-actually's in our experience are about grandstanding, not truth-seeking.
(Thanks to Miguel de Icaza for originally coining the term "well-actually.")

### No back-seat driving

If you overhear people working through a problem, you shouldn't intermittently
lob advice across the room. This can lead to the "too many cooks" problem, but
more important, it can be rude and disruptive to half-participate in a
conversation. This isn't to say you shouldn't help, offer advice, or join
conversations. On the contrary, we encourage all those things. Rather, it just
means that when you want to help out or work with others, you should fully
engage and not just butt in sporadically.

### No subtle -isms

Our last social rule bans subtle racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, and
other kinds of bias. This one is different from the rest, because it covers a
class of behaviors instead of one very specific pattern.

Subtle -isms are small things that make others feel uncomfortable, things that
we all sometimes do by mistake. For example, saying "It's so easy my grandmother
could do it" is a subtle -ism. Like the other three social rules, this one is
often accidentally broken. Like the other three, it's not a big deal to mess up
– you just apologize and move on.

If you see a subtle -ism at the Recurse Center, you can point it out to the
relevant person, either publicly or privately, or you can ask one of the faculty
to say something. After this, we ask that all further discussion move off of
public channels. If you are a third party, and you don't see what could be
biased about the comment that was made, feel free to talk to faculty. Please
don't say, "Comment X wasn't homophobic!" Similarly, please don't pile on to
someone who made a mistake. The "subtle" in "subtle -isms" means that it's
probably not obvious to everyone right away what was wrong with the comment.

We want the Recurse Center to be a space with as little bigotry as possible in
it. Therefore, if you see sexism, racism, etc. outside of the Recurse Center,
please don't bring it in. So, for example, please don't start a discussion of
the latest offensive comment from Random Tech Person Y. For many people,
especially those who may have spent time in unpleasant environments, these
conversations can be very distracting. At the Recurse Center, we want to remove
as many distractions as possible so everyone can focus on programming. There are
many places in the world to discuss and debate these issues, but there are
precious few where people can avoid them. We want the Recurse Center to be one
of those places.

### Why have social rules?

The goal isn't to burden everyone with a bunch of annoying rules, or to give us
a stick to bludgeon people with for "being bad." Rather, these rules are
designed to help all of us build a pleasant, productive, and fearless community.

If someone says, "hey, you just feigned surprise," or "that's subtly sexist,"
don't worry. Just apologize, reflect for a second, and move on. It doesn't mean
you're a "bad" person, or even a "bad" Recurser. As we said above, these rules
are meant to be lightweight. We've all done these things before. In fact, we
originally adopted a no well-actually policy for our company because Nick and
Dave well-actually'd each other all the time.

## **NodeSchool Cincinnati**

* Organizers: [Matt Hernandez](https://twitter.com/fiveisprime), [Jack Boberg](https://twitter.com/jackboberg), [Tara Z. Manicsic](https://twitter.com/tzmanics), [Alex Padgett](https://twitter.com/apcomplete), [Jeremiah Harlan](https://twitter.com/theworkflow15), [Francesca Varney](https://twitter.com/varFranv)

* Meetup URL: TBD

**If you have questions or feedback about this Code of Conduct please contact
one of the organizers.**

The organizers of the above communities developed this Code of Conduct to
govern their respective events and communication channels. We used
[PDX Python's anti-harassment policy](http://www.meetup.com/pdxpython/pages/Code_of_Conduct/)
and the
[Geek Feminism Conference anti-harassment policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy)
as a starting point. This Code of Conduct, like its inspirations, is licensed
under the
[Creative Commons Zero license](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).


[user-guide]: https://www.recurse.com/manual#sub-sec-social-rules
